# Course-Grade-Calculator
This project is designed specifically for the task of calculating my current grade for CISC3130. 
I created an object called Task, which is the Task.java class. It's a one-size-fits-all for all the types of task required in this course such as Practice Problems, Labs, Midterms and the Final. There's a field for the name of the task, the percent of the final grade that the task is worth, the amount of points that's possible to get on it, the score that the user got on that particular assignment if the assignment was completed, and if it wasn't then a boolean variable labeled completed will remain false. There's a constructor which takes the name of the task, the possible points and percentage of the grade as arguments. There's a setter method which sets the myScore field to the user's score on particular assignment and sets completed to true. There's two getter methods, one which returns the possible points that can be gotten from completing the task and another that returns the user's score.
There's another file in the project titled GradeCalculator.java. 
This java file has 2 methods, a main method and a method that returns a String.
In the main method I created 3 arrays of my Task object, one for Practice Problems, one for Labs and one for Midterms. Then there's a single instance of the Task object for the final exam. A scanner takes input from the keyboard and asks the user to enter how many practice problems they've completed, then they'll be asked to enter their scores for the practice problems they've completed. The same will be done will be done for Labs and the 2 midterms. 
After that they'll be asked if they've taken the final exam, if they have then their grade will be calculated and the program ends as their grade is final now and the grade can no longer be improved. Otherwise their current grade will be calculated and printed out and then the other method in the class will be called. This method calculates the amount of tasks remaining and will create a String that will say how many tasks are remaining and what the user grade's will become if they complete those tasks. After that the amount they need to get on the final to get an overall final grade of A will be calculated and then added to the String and then returned back into the main method.
The main method will print this String with all the information regarding their remaining tasks and how much they need to score on the final after completing their remaining tasks to get an A. Then the program ends.

The "sample output.txt" file in this repository is a file that contains the output that I received based on my grades and completed assignments. I copied this output from the console because this program prints the output to the console, not to an output file. 

If you wish to run this program, make sure the 2 .java files Lab6.java and Task.java are in the same project folder, or just upload them both to an online IDE and run the program, The program will prompt you to enter input from the keyboard and all of the output is displayed on the console. The program ends once the grade is calculated.

Although this program can only currently calculate the grade of my current data structures course, I am working to expand this so this can calculate the grade of any course.
